
Real-Time Multiplayer Cursor/State Sync
Overview
Build a real-time, multi-client interactive experience — think a live "fan-moment" widget during a broadcast, where many viewers simultaneously tap, react, or move a cursor and everyone sees everyone else's actions with minimal lag. No WebSocket libraries, no state-sync frameworks (Socket.IO, Yjs, Liveblocks, PartyKit, etc.) — raw WebSockets (or SSE, see FAQ) and your own protocol.
Implement this as a single well-architected application (client + a minimal server). A package/monorepo split is not required here — this assignment is about the sync engine's design, not distribution.
Prioritize a clean client-side reconciliation model, smooth interpolation of remote state, and a server that stays simple and honest about what it guarantees.
Core requirements
1) Real-time sync engine
Build the core sync layer from scratch on top of the raw WebSocket API (client) and Node's built-in http/ws-free server, or SSE + fetch for one-way channels if you prefer that architecture (see FAQ). No socket/state-sync libraries.
tsx
>const room=createRoom({ roomId:"watch-party-42", clientId});room.sendAction({ type:"cursor", x, y});room.onRemoteAction((clientId, action)=>{/* update local view */});
​
Shared cursor/reaction canvas
Every connected client sees every other client's cursor position, live, on a shared <canvas> or DOM layer.
Support at least one discrete "reaction" action (e.g. tap-to-emit an emoji burst at a point) in addition to continuous cursor movement.
New clients joining mid-session should see current participants' cursors within a reasonable delay (define and document your approach — full state snapshot vs. replay vs. "just wait for next update").
Interpolation & jitter handling
Remote cursors must move smoothly even though updates arrive at irregular intervals over the network — no teleporting/snapping. Implement your own interpolation (e.g. simple linear interpolation between last two known positions, extrapolation, or a small buffer/delay approach).
Document your chosen strategy and its tradeoffs (latency added vs. smoothness).
Disconnect / reconnect handling
Detect when a client disconnects (deliberately or via dropped connection) and remove their cursor within a bounded time.
Handle a client's reconnect — resuming into the room without duplicating their cursor or requiring a full page reload.
Conflict / ordering
Define and document what happens when messages arrive out of order (which they will, over real networks) — e.g. sequence numbers or timestamps to discard stale updates.
Type safety
All message types exchanged between client and server must be defined and validated with TypeScript — an unknown or malformed message type should be rejected, not silently accepted or crash the client.
2) Example demo application
Build a demo where multiple browser tabs/devices join the same "room" and interact live. It should support:
Multiple simultaneous clients (test with at least 3-5 tabs) seeing each other's cursors in real time.
At least one reaction type (tap-to-react) visible to all participants.
A visible client count / presence list.
Graceful behavior when a client closes the tab or loses network — no zombie cursors left behind indefinitely, and no crash for remaining clients.
Technical challenges (what we're really testing)
1) Protocol design
You're designing the wire format and semantics from nothing. We want to see clear, minimal message types, sensible framing, and thought given to bandwidth (e.g. do you really need to send cursor position on every mousemove event, uncapped?).
What we evaluate:
Message schema clarity and type safety
Sane throttling/batching of high-frequency events (raw mousemove is often 60-120Hz — sending every event is a choice you should justify or avoid)
Reasoning about what state lives on the server vs. is purely relayed
2) Client-side reconciliation & interpolation
Example expectation: with an artificially throttled/degraded network (you should be able to demonstrate this, e.g. via browser devtools throttling), remote cursors should still move plausibly smoothly rather than jumping.
What we evaluate:
Soundness of your interpolation/extrapolation approach
Clear tradeoff reasoning (added latency vs. visual smoothness) in your README
No unbounded memory growth (e.g. buffering every historical position forever)
3) Server design
A minimal server is expected — not a distributed system. We're testing whether you can reason correctly about a stateful real-time relay without over- or under-building it.
What we evaluate:
Clean room/presence management
Correct broadcast fan-out (not O(n²) naive re-broadcast bugs, not accidentally echoing a client's own action back to itself unless intentional)
Honest handling of disconnects (heartbeat/ping-pong or equivalent — the raw WebSocket API gives you close/error events, use them correctly)
4) Code architecture
What we evaluate:
Separation between transport (raw WebSocket plumbing), protocol (message types/validation), and rendering (cursor/reaction drawing)
Would this be extensible to a new action type without touching transport code?
Submission structure
> multiplayer-sync-assignment/
├── server/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── server.ts
│   │   ├── room.ts
│   │   └── protocol.ts
│   └── package.json
│
├── client/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── connection.ts
│   │   ├── interpolation.ts
│   │   ├── render.ts
│   │   └── App.tsx
│   └── package.json
│
├── README.md
└── ARCHITECTURE.md

Documentation requirements
README.md must include
Setup instructions (how to run the server and open multiple clients)
Known limitations
Time spent on the assignment
Protocol design
Full list of message types and their shape
How you throttle/batch high-frequency updates
Interpolation strategy
Your chosen approach and why
Measured/estimated added latency vs. smoothness tradeoff
Failure handling
What happens on disconnect, reconnect, out-of-order delivery, and malformed messages
Limitations
Examples: no persistence across server restart, no horizontal scaling story, no authentication.
Evaluation criteria (weighted)
Protocol & sync engine design (35%): message design, throttling, correctness of state relay
Interpolation & real-time UX (25%): smoothness under real network conditions, sound tradeoffs
Server correctness (20%): presence/room management, disconnect handling, no broadcast bugs
Example application (10%): convincing multi-client demo
Code quality (10%): readability, architecture, documentation
What we don't want to see
Socket.IO, Yjs, PartyKit, Liveblocks, Ably, Pusher, or any other real-time/sync library or hosted service doing the actual sync work
Raw, unthrottled mousemove events blasted straight to the network with no batching
Cursors that visibly teleport/snap on every update
A "server" that's just a naive broadcast loop with no disconnect/cleanup logic
Polling (repeated HTTP requests) presented as "real-time" without justification
Timeline and submission
Time limit: 3–5 days
Submission: GitHub repository
Optional: deployed demo (note: needs a host that supports persistent WebSocket connections)
Email with repo link
Bonus points (optional)
Extrapolation (predicting position ahead of the last known point) instead of only interpolation
Adaptive throttling based on measured round-trip latency per client
A basic reconciliation of simultaneous conflicting actions (e.g. two clients tapping the same target at once)
Visualizing per-client latency/jitter in the demo UI
Horizontal scaling discussion (even just written, not implemented) — how would this work with multiple server instances?
Live interview expectations
If the submission passes review, be prepared to:
Demo multiple live clients interacting simultaneously
Throttle the network live and explain what your interpolation does under those conditions
Walk through the message protocol and why you chose that shape
Explain what happens, step by step, when a client's tab is closed
Discuss how you'd scale this beyond a single server process
FAQ
Q: Can I use Socket.IO or a similar library "just for the transport" and build my own sync logic on top?
A: No. The raw WebSocket API (or SSE, see below) must be your transport. The point is understanding what these libraries normally do for you.
Q: Can I use SSE instead of WebSockets?
A: SSE is one-directional (server → client), so if you use it you'll need a separate mechanism (e.g. plain fetch POST) for client → server actions, and you should justify that architecture in your README. WebSockets are the more natural fit and are recommended.
Q: Does this need to support hundreds of concurrent clients?
A: No. Correctness and smoothness with 3-10 clients is the bar. Discussing (not necessarily implementing) how it would scale further is a bonus.
Q: Do I need authentication/rooms with access control?
A: No, a shared/public room ID is fine for this assignment.
Q: Does the demo need to be deployed?
A: Optional. If you do deploy it, make sure your host supports persistent WebSocket connections (many free static hosts don't).
Q: Can I use React for the client UI?
A: Yes, for rendering/UI. The WebSocket handling, protocol, and interpolation logic must be your own, framework-agnostic code.
Q: Can I use AI tools while working on the assignment?
A: You may use AI tools. Disclose which tools you used and for what in the README. This will not penalize you, but you must be able to explain the final code.
Q: What if I don't finish everything?
A: That's okay. Clearly document what works, what is incomplete, and what you would improve next.
Q: How much time should I spend on the assignment?
A: 3–5 days. Focus on getting the core sync loop genuinely correct and smooth rather than adding many action types.
Final note
This assignment is about understanding what real-time sync libraries actually do under the hood — message design, throttling, interpolation, and honest failure handling — not about wiring one up. A small, correct, smooth 2-action demo beats a large, janky one.
